The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our international stores and
product and service offerings are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Due to these fluctuations, operating results may
differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany
balances. As we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations has increased. We also
hold cash equivalents and/or marketable securities in foreign currencies such as British Pounds, Canadian Dollars, Euros, and
Japanese Yen. When the U.S. Dollar strengthens compared to these currencies, cash equivalents, and marketable securities
balances, when translated, may be materially less than expected and vice versa.
Operating Risks
Our Expansion Places a Significant Strain on our Management, Operational, Financial, and Other Resources
We are continuing to rapidly and significantly expand our global operations, including increasing our product and service
offerings and scaling our infrastructure to support our retail and services businesses. The complexity of the current scale of our
business can place significant strain on our management, personnel, operations, systems, technical performance, financial
resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions, and our expansion increases these factors. Failure to manage
growth effectively could damage our reputation, limit our growth, and negatively affect our operating results.
We Experience Significant Fluctuations in Our Operating Results and Growth Rate
We are not always able to accurately forecast our growth rate. We base our expense levels and investment plans on sales
estimates. A significant portion of our expenses and investments is fixed, and we are not always able to adjust our spending
quickly enough if our sales are less than expected.
Our revenue growth may not be sustainable, and our percentage growth rates may decrease. Our revenue and operating
profit growth depends on the continued growth of demand for the products and services offered by us or our sellers, and our
business is affected by general economic, business, and geopolitical conditions worldwide. A softening of demand, whether
caused by changes in customer preferences or a weakening of the U.S. or global economies, may result in decreased revenue or
growth.
Our sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including due to factors described elsewhere in
this section and the following:
• our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers, and satisfy our customers’
demands;
• our ability to retain and expand our network of sellers;
• our ability to offer products on favorable terms, manage inventory, and fulfill orders;
• the introduction of competitive stores, websites, products, services, price decreases, or improvements;
• changes in usage or adoption rates of the Internet, e-commerce, electronic devices, and web services, including
outside the U.S.;
• timing, effectiveness, and costs of expansion and upgrades of our systems and infrastructure;
• the success of our geographic, service, and product line expansions;
• the extent to which we finance, and the terms of any such financing for, our current operations and future growth;
9
• the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, which may include significant monetary damages or injunctive relief
and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results;
• variations in the mix of products and services we sell;
• variations in our level of merchandise and vendor returns;
• the extent to which we offer fast and free delivery, continue to reduce prices worldwide, and provide additional
benefits to our customers;
• factors affecting our reputation or brand image (including any actual or perceived inability to achieve our goals or
commitments, whether related to sustainability, customers, employees, or other topics);
• the extent to which we invest in technology and content, fulfillment, and other expense categories;
• increases in the prices of transportation (including fuel), energy products, commodities like paper and packing
supplies and hardware products, and technology infrastructure products, including as a result of inflationary
pressures;
• constrained labor markets, which increase our payroll costs;
• the extent to which operators of the networks between our customers and our stores successfully charge fees to grant
our customers unimpaired and unconstrained access to our online services;
• our ability to collect amounts owed to us when they become due;
• the extent to which new and existing technologies, or industry trends, restrict online advertising or affect our ability to
customize advertising or otherwise tailor our product and service offerings;
• the extent to which use of our services is affected by spyware, viruses, phishing and other spam emails, denial of
service attacks, data theft, computer intrusions, outages, and similar events; and
• disruptions from natural or human-caused disasters (including public health crises) or extreme weather (including as a
result of climate change), geopolitical events and security issues (including terrorist attacks and armed hostilities),
labor or trade disputes (including restrictive governmental actions impacting us and our third-party sellers in China or
other foreign countries), and similar events.
We Face Risks Related to Successfully Optimizing and Operating Our Fulfillment Network and Data Centers
Failures to adequately predict customer demand or otherwise optimize and operate our fulfillment network and data
centers successfully from time to time result in excess or insufficient fulfillment or data center capacity, service interruptions,
increased costs, and impairment charges, any of which could materially harm our business. As we continue to add fulfillment
and data center capability or add new businesses with different requirements, our fulfillment and data center networks become
increasingly complex and operating them becomes more challenging. There can be no assurance that we will be able to operate
our networks effectively.
In addition, failure to optimize inventory or staffing in our fulfillment network increases our net shipping cost by
requiring long-zone or partial shipments. We and our co-sourcers may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment network and
customer service centers. For example, productivity across our fulfillment network currently is being affected by regional labor
market and global supply chain constraints, which increase payroll costs and make it difficult to hire, train, and deploy a
sufficient number of people to operate our fulfillment network as efficiently as we would like.
Under some of our commercial agreements, we maintain the inventory of other companies, thereby increasing the
complexity of tracking inventory and operating our fulfillment network. Our failure to properly handle such inventory or the
inability of the other businesses on whose behalf we perform inventory fulfillment services to accurately forecast product
demand may result in us being unable to secure sufficient storage space or to optimize our fulfillment network or cause other
unexpected costs and other harm to our business and reputation.
We rely on a limited number of shipping companies to deliver inventory to us and completed orders to our customers. An
inability to negotiate acceptable terms with these companies or performance problems, staffing limitations, or other difficulties
experienced by these companies or by our own transportation systems, including as a result of labor market constraints and
related costs, could negatively impact our operating results and customer experience. In addition, our ability to receive inbound
inventory efficiently and ship completed orders to customers also may be negatively affected by natural or human-caused
disasters (including public health crises) or extreme weather (including as a result of climate change), geopolitical events and
security issues, labor or trade disputes, and similar events.
10
We Could Be Harmed by Data Loss or Other Security Breaches
Because we collect, process, store, and transmit large amounts of data, including confidential, sensitive, proprietary, and
business and personal information, failure to prevent or mitigate data loss, theft, misuse, or other security breaches or
vulnerabilities affecting our or our vendors’ or customers’ technology, products, and systems, could: expose us or our
customers to a risk of loss, disclosure, or misuse of such information; adversely affect our operating results; result in litigation,
liability, or regulatory action (including under laws related to privacy, data use, data protection, data security, network security,
and consumer protection); deter customers or sellers from using our stores, products, and services; and otherwise harm our
business and reputation. We use third-party technology and systems for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation,
encryption and authentication technology, employee email, content delivery to customers, back-office support, and other
functions. Some of our systems have experienced past security breaches, and, although they did not have a material adverse
effect on our operating results, there can be no assurance that future incidents will not have material adverse effects on our
operations or financial results. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect customer data
and prevent such incidents, including systems and processes designed to reduce the impact of a security breach at a third-party
vendor or customer, such measures cannot provide absolute security and may fail to operate as intended or be circumvented.
We Face Risks Related to System Interruption and Lack of Redundancy
We experience occasional system interruptions and delays that make our websites and services unavailable or slow to
respond and prevent us from efficiently accepting or fulfilling orders or providing services to customers and third parties, which
may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness of our products and services. Steps we take to add software and hardware,
upgrade our systems and network infrastructure, and improve the stability and efficiency of our systems may not be sufficient to
avoid system interruptions or delays that could adversely affect our operating results.
Our computer and communications systems and operations in the past have been, or in the future could be, damaged or
interrupted due to events such as natural or human-caused disasters (including public health crises) or extreme weather
(including as a result of climate change), geopolitical events and security issues (including terrorist attacks and armed
hostilities), computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, operational failures (including from energy shortages), and
similar events or disruptions. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays, and loss of critical data, and could
prevent us from accepting and fulfilling customer orders and providing services, which could make our product and service
offerings less attractive and subject us to liability. Our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may
not be sufficient. In addition, our insurance may not provide sufficient coverage to compensate for related losses. Any of these
events could damage our reputation and be expensive to remedy.
The Loss of Key Senior Management Personnel or the Failure to Hire and Retain Highly Skilled and Other Personnel
Could Negatively Affect Our Business
We depend on our senior management and other key personnel, including our President and CEO. We do not have “key
person” life insurance policies. We also rely on other highly skilled personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the
industries in which we operate, as well as senior management, has historically been intense. For example, we experience
significant competition in the technology industry, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical
staff. In addition, changes we make to our current and future work environments may not meet the needs or expectations of our
employees or may be perceived as less favorable compared to other companies’ policies, which could negatively impact our
ability to hire and retain qualified personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key employees, the failure to
successfully transition key roles, or the inability to hire, train, retain, and manage qualified personnel, could harm our business.
We also rely on a significant number of personnel to operate our stores, fulfillment network, and data centers and carry
out our other operations. Failure to successfully hire, train, manage, and retain sufficient personnel to meet our needs can strain
our operations, increase payroll and other costs, and harm our business and reputation. In addition, changes in laws and
regulations applicable to employees, independent contractors, and temporary personnel could increase our payroll costs,
decrease our operational flexibility, and negatively impact how we are able to staff our operations and supplement our
workforce.
We are also subject to labor union efforts to organize groups of our employees from time to time. These organizational
efforts, if successful, decrease our operational flexibility, which could adversely affect our operating efficiency. In addition, our
response to any organizational efforts could be perceived negatively and harm our business and reputation.
Our Supplier Relationships Subject Us to a Number of Risks
We have significant suppliers, including content and technology licensors, and in some cases, limited or single-sources of
supply, that are important to our sourcing, services, manufacturing, and any related ongoing servicing of merchandise and
content. We do not have long-term arrangements with most of our suppliers to guarantee availability of merchandise, content,
11
components, or services, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. Decisions by our current suppliers to limit
or stop selling or licensing merchandise, content, components, or services to us on acceptable terms, or delay delivery,
including as a result of one or more supplier bankruptcies due to poor economic conditions, as a result of natural or humancaused disasters (including public health crises), or for other reasons, may result in our being unable to procure alternatives
from other suppliers in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, violations by our suppliers
or other vendors of applicable laws, regulations, contractual terms, intellectual property rights of others, or our Supply Chain
Standards, as well as products or practices regarded as unethical, unsafe, or hazardous, could expose us to claims, damage our
reputation, limit our growth, and negatively affect our operating results.
Our Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances, and Other Business Relationships Expose Us to Risks
We provide physical, e-commerce, and omnichannel retail, cloud services, and other services to businesses through
commercial agreements, strategic alliances, and business relationships. Under these agreements, we provide web services,
technology, fulfillment, computing, digital storage, and other services, as well as enable sellers to offer products or services
through our stores. These arrangements are complex and require substantial infrastructure capacity, personnel, and other
resource commitments, which may limit the amount of business we can service. We may not be able to implement, maintain,
and develop the components of these commercial relationships, which may include web services, fulfillment, customer service,
inventory management, tax collection, payment processing, hardware, content, and third-party software, and engaging third
parties to perform services. The amount of compensation we receive under certain of our commercial agreements is partially
dependent on the volume of the other company’s sales. Therefore, when the other company’s offerings are not successful, the
compensation we receive may be lower than expected or the agreement may be terminated. Moreover, we may not be able to
enter into additional or alternative commercial relationships and strategic alliances on favorable terms. We also may be subject
to claims from businesses to which we provide these services if we are unsuccessful in implementing, maintaining, or
developing these services.
As our agreements terminate, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. We
may in the future enter into amendments on less favorable terms or encounter parties that have difficulty meeting their
contractual obligations to us, which could adversely affect our operating results.
Our present and future commercial agreements, strategic alliances, and business relationships create additional risks such
as:
• disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses;
• impairment of other relationships;
• variability in revenue and income from entering into, amending, or terminating such agreements or relationships; and
• difficulty integrating under the commercial agreements.
Our Business Suffers When We Are Unsuccessful in Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Acquisitions and Investments
We have acquired and invested in a number of companies, and we may in the future acquire or invest in or enter into joint
ventures with additional companies. These transactions involve risks such as:
• disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses;
• problems retaining key personnel;
• additional operating losses and expenses of the businesses we acquired or in which we invested;
• the potential impairment of tangible and intangible assets and goodwill, including as a result of acquisitions;
• the potential impairment of customer and other relationships of the company we acquired or in which we invested or
our own customers as a result of any integration of operations;
• the difficulty of completing such transactions, including obtaining regulatory approvals or satisfying other closing
conditions, and achieving anticipated benefits within expected timeframes, or at all;
• the difficulty of incorporating acquired operations, technology, and rights into our offerings, and unanticipated
expenses related to such integration;
• the difficulty of integrating a new company’s accounting, financial reporting, management, information and data
security, human resource, and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if
such integration is delayed or not successfully implemented;
• losses we may incur as a result of declines in the value of an investment or as a result of incorporating an investee’s
financial performance into our financial results;
12
• for investments in which an investee’s financial performance is incorporated into our financial results, either in full or
in part, or investments for which we are required to file financial statements or provide financial information, the
dependence on the investee’s accounting, financial reporting, and similar systems, controls, and processes;
• the difficulty of implementing at companies we acquire the controls, procedures, and policies appropriate for a larger
public company;
• the risks associated with businesses we acquire or invest in, which may differ from or be more significant than the
risks our other businesses face;
• potential unknown liabilities associated with a company we acquire or in which we invest; and
• for foreign transactions, additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and
languages, and the economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.
As a result of future acquisitions or mergers, we might need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur
debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could reduce our profitability and
harm our business or only be available on unfavorable terms, if at all. In addition, valuations supporting our acquisitions and
strategic investments could change rapidly. We could determine that such valuations have experienced impairments or otherthan-temporary declines in fair value which could adversely impact our financial results.
We Face Significant Inventory Risk
In addition to risks described elsewhere in this Item 1A relating to fulfillment network and inventory optimization by us
and third parties, we are exposed to significant inventory risks that may adversely affect our operating results as a result of
seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes in product cycles and pricing, defective merchandise, changes in customer
demand and consumer spending patterns, changes in consumer tastes with respect to our products, spoilage, and other factors.
We endeavor to accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking or understocking products we manufacture and/or sell.
Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory or components are ordered and the date of
sale. In addition, when we begin selling or manufacturing a new product, it may be difficult to establish vendor relationships,
determine appropriate product or component selection, and accurately forecast demand. The acquisition of certain types of
inventory or components requires significant lead-time and prepayment and they may not be returnable. We carry a broad
selection and significant inventory levels of certain products, such as consumer electronics, and at times we are unable to sell
products in sufficient quantities or to meet demand during the relevant selling seasons. Any one of the inventory risk factors set
forth above may adversely affect our operating results.
We Are Subject to Payments-Related Risks
We accept payments using a variety of methods, including credit card, debit card, credit accounts (including promotional
financing), gift cards, direct debit from a customer’s bank account, consumer invoicing, physical bank check, and payment
upon delivery. For existing and future payment options we offer to our customers, we currently are subject to, and may become
subject to additional, regulations and compliance requirements (including obligations to implement enhanced authentication
processes that could result in significant costs and reduce the ease of use of our payments products), as well as fraud. For
certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time
and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. We rely on third parties to provide certain Amazon-branded payment
methods and payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, electronic checks, and
promotional financing. In each case, it could disrupt our business if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide
these services to us. We also offer co-branded credit card programs, which could adversely affect our operating results if
renewed on less favorable terms or terminated. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, including data
security rules, certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted
to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. Failure to comply with these rules or requirements, as well as any breach,
compromise, or failure to otherwise detect or prevent fraudulent activity involving our data security systems, could result in our
being liable for card issuing banks’ costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees, and loss of our ability to accept credit and
debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers, or facilitate other types of online payments, and our
business and operating results could be adversely affected.
In addition, we provide regulated services in certain jurisdictions because we enable customers to keep account balances
with us and transfer money to third parties, and because we provide services to third parties to facilitate payments on their
behalf. Jurisdictions subject us to requirements for licensing, regulatory inspection, bonding and capital maintenance, the use,
handling, and segregation of transferred funds, consumer disclosures, maintaining or processing data, and authentication. We
are also subject to or voluntarily comply with a number of other laws and regulations relating to payments, money laundering,
international money transfers, privacy, data use, data protection, data security, data localization, network security, consumer
13
protection, and electronic fund transfers. If we were found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be
subject to additional requirements and civil and criminal penalties, or forced to cease providing certain services.
We Have a Rapidly Evolving Business Model and Our Stock Price Is Highly Volatile
We have a rapidly evolving business model. The trading price of our common stock fluctuates significantly in response
to, among other risks, the risks described elsewhere in this Item 1A, as well as:
• changes in interest rates;
• conditions or trends in the Internet and the industry segments we operate in;
• quarterly variations in operating results;
• fluctuations in the stock market in general and market prices for Internet-related companies in particular;
• changes in financial estimates by us or decisions to increase or decrease future spending or investment levels;
• changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts;
• changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt or equity to the public;
• changes in the valuation methodology of, or performance by, other e-commerce or technology companies; and
• transactions in our common stock by major investors and certain analyst reports, news, and speculation.
Volatility in our stock price could adversely affect our business and financing opportunities and force us to increase our
cash compensation to employees or grant larger stock awards than we have historically, which could hurt our operating results
or reduce the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders, or both.
Legal and Regulatory Risks
Government Regulation Is Evolving and Unfavorable Changes Could Harm Our Business
We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the
Internet, physical, e-commerce, and omnichannel retail, digital content, web services, electronic devices, advertising, artificial
intelligence technologies and services, and other products and services that we offer or sell. These regulations and laws cover
taxation, privacy, data use, data protection, data security, data localization, network security, consumer protection, pricing,
content, copyrights, distribution, transportation, mobile communications, electronic device certification, electronic waste,
energy consumption, environmental regulation, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, employment, trade
and protectionist measures, web services, the provision of online payment services, registration, licensing, and information
reporting requirements, unencumbered Internet access to our services or access to our facilities, the design and operation of
websites, health, safety, and sanitation standards, the characteristics, legality, and quality of products and services, product
labeling, the commercial operation of unmanned aircraft systems, healthcare, and other matters. It is not clear how existing laws
governing issues such as property ownership, libel, privacy, data use, data protection, data security, data localization, network
security, and consumer protection apply to aspects of our operations such as the Internet, e-commerce, digital content, web
services, electronic devices, advertising, and artificial intelligence technologies and services. A large number of jurisdictions
regulate our operations, and the extent, nature, and scope of such regulations is evolving and expanding as the scope of our
businesses expand. We are regularly subject to formal and informal reviews, investigations, and other proceedings by
governments and regulatory authorities under existing laws, regulations, or interpretations or pursuing new and novel
approaches to regulate our operations. For example, we face a number of open investigations based on claims that aspects of
our operations violate competition rules, including aspects of Amazon’s U.S. and European marketplace for sellers, particularly
with respect to use of data, fulfillment services, and featured offers, and legislative and regulatory initiatives in Europe and
elsewhere allow authorities to restrict or prohibit certain operations or actions pre-emptively without the need to assess specific
competitive effects. Unfavorable regulations, laws, decisions, or interpretations by government or regulatory authorities
applying those laws and regulations, or inquiries, investigations, or enforcement actions threatened or initiated by them, could
cause us to incur substantial costs, expose us to unanticipated civil and criminal liability or penalties (including substantial
monetary fines), diminish the demand for, or availability of, our products and services, increase our cost of doing business,
require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business, damage our reputation, impede our
growth, or otherwise have a material effect on our operations. The media, political, and regulatory scrutiny we face, which may
continue to increase, amplifies these risks.
14
Claims, Litigation, Government Investigations, and Other Proceedings May Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of
Operations
As an innovative company offering a wide range of consumer and business products and services around the world, we
are regularly subject to actual and threatened claims, litigation, reviews, investigations, and other proceedings, including
proceedings by governments and regulatory authorities, involving a wide range of issues, including patent and other intellectual
property matters, taxes, labor and employment, competition and antitrust, privacy, data use, data protection, data security, data
localization, network security, consumer protection, commercial disputes, goods and services offered by us and by third parties,
and other matters. The number and scale of these proceedings have increased over time as our businesses have expanded in
scope and geographic reach, as our products, services, and operations have become more complex and available to, and used
by, more people, and as governments and regulatory authorities seek to regulate us on a pre-emptive basis. For example, we are
litigating a number of matters alleging price fixing, monopolization, and consumer protection claims, including those brought
by state attorneys general. Any of these types of proceedings can have an adverse effect on us because of legal costs, disruption
of our operations, diversion of management resources, negative publicity, and other factors. The outcomes of these matters are
inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties. Determining legal reserves or possible losses from such
matters involves judgment and may not reflect the full range of uncertainties and unpredictable outcomes. Until the final
resolution of such matters, we may be exposed to losses in excess of the amount recorded, and such amounts could be material.
Should any of our estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material effect on our
business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. In addition, it is possible that a resolution of one
or more such proceedings, including as a result of a settlement, could involve licenses, sanctions, consent decrees, or orders
requiring us to make substantial future payments, preventing us from offering certain products or services, requiring us to
change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business, requiring development of non-infringing or
otherwise altered products or technologies, damaging our reputation, or otherwise having a material effect on our operations.
We Are Subject to Product Liability Claims When People or Property Are Harmed by the Products We Sell or
Manufacture
Some of the products we sell or manufacture expose us to product liability or food safety claims relating to personal
injury or illness, death, or environmental or property damage, and can require product recalls or other actions. Third parties who
sell products using our services and stores also expose us to product liability claims. Additionally, under our A-to-z Guarantee,
we may reimburse customers for certain product liability claims up to certain limits in these situations, and as our third-party
seller sales grow, the cost of this program will increase and could negatively affect our operating results. Although we maintain
liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will
continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. Although we impose contractual terms on sellers that
are intended to prohibit sales of certain type of products, we may not be able to detect, enforce, or collect sufficient damages for
breaches of such agreements. In addition, some of our agreements with our vendors and sellers do not indemnify us from
product liability.
We Face Additional Tax Liabilities and Collection Obligations
We are subject to a variety of taxes and tax collection obligations in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign
jurisdictions. We may recognize additional tax expense and be subject to additional tax liabilities, including other liabilities for
tax collection obligations due to changes in laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to
tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions.
Such changes could come about as a result of economic, political, and other conditions. An increasing number of jurisdictions
are considering or have adopted laws or administrative practices that impose new tax measures, including revenue-based taxes,
targeting online commerce and the remote selling of goods and services. These include new obligations to withhold or collect
sales, consumption, value added, or other taxes on online marketplaces and remote sellers, or other requirements that may result
in liability for third party obligations. For example, non-U.S. jurisdictions have proposed or enacted taxes on online advertising
and marketplace service revenues. Proliferation of these or similar unilateral tax measures may continue unless broader
international tax reform is implemented. Our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by additional
taxes imposed on us prospectively or retroactively or additional taxes or penalties resulting from the failure to comply with any
collection obligations or failure to provide information about our customers, suppliers, and other third parties for tax reporting
purposes to various government agencies. In some cases we also may not have sufficient notice to enable us to build systems
and adopt processes to properly comply with new reporting or collection obligations by the effective date.
Our tax expense and liabilities are also affected by other factors, such as changes in our business operations, acquisitions,
investments, entry into new businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, the relative amount of our foreign earnings,
losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize related tax benefits, the applicability of special or
extraterritorial tax regimes, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in our stock price, changes to our forecasts of
income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, and changes in our tax assets and liabilities and their
15
valuation. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax
determination is uncertain. Significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our tax expense, assets, and liabilities.
We are also subject to tax controversies in various jurisdictions that can result in tax assessments against us.
Developments in an audit, investigation, or other tax controversy can have a material effect on our operating results or cash
flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. Due to the
inherent complexity and uncertainty of these matters, interpretations of certain tax laws by authorities, and judicial,
administrative, and regulatory processes in certain jurisdictions, the final outcome of any such controversy may be materially
different from our expectations. For example, in February 2023, the Indian Tax Authority determined that tax applies to cloud
services fees paid to the U.S. We are contesting this determination; however, if this matter is adversely resolved, we may be
required to pay additional amounts with respect to current and prior periods and our taxes in the future could increase. We
regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these proceedings to determine the adequacy of our tax
accruals. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of audits, investigations, and any other tax
controversies could be materially different from our historical tax accruals.
We Are Subject to Risks Related to Government Contracts and Related Procurement Regulations
Our contracts with U.S., as well as state, local, and foreign, government entities are subject to various procurement
regulations and other requirements relating to their formation, administration, and performance. We are subject to audits and
investigations relating to our government contracts, and any violations could result in various civil and criminal penalties and
administrative sanctions, including termination of contract, refunding or suspending of payments, forfeiture of profits, payment
of fines, and suspension or debarment from future government business. In addition, some of these contracts are subject to
periodic funding approval and/or provide for termination by the government at any time, without cause.
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
None.
16
Item 2. Properties
As of December 31, 2022, we operated the following facilities (in thousands):
Description of Use
Leased Square
Footage (1)
Owned Square
Footage Location
Office space 30,611 6,792 North America
Office space 23,956 1,802 International
Physical stores (2) 22,881 662 North America
Physical stores (2) 291 — International
Fulfillment, data centers, and other 391,598 22,058 North America
Fulfillment, data centers, and other 148,146 12,613 International
Total 617,483 43,927
 ___________________
(1) For leased properties, represents the total leased space excluding sub-leased space.
(2) This includes 611 North America and 32 International stores as of December 31, 2022.
Segment
Leased Square
Footage (1)
Owned Square
Footage (1)
North America 403,984 13,595
International 140,898 6,292
AWS 18,034 15,446
Total 562,916 35,333
 ___________________
(1) Segment amounts exclude corporate facilities. Shared facilities are allocated among the segments based on usage and
primarily relate to facilities that hold our technology infrastructure. See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data — Note 10 — Segment Information.”
We own and lease our corporate headquarters in Washington’s Puget Sound region and Arlington, Virginia.
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies —
Legal Proceedings.”
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
17
PART II
Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Stock, Related Shareholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities
Market Information
Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “AMZN.”
Holders
As of January 25, 2023, there were 10,845 shareholders of record of our common stock, although there is a much larger
number of beneficial owners.
Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities
None.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
None.
Item 6. Reserved
18
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance,
industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forwardlooking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forwardlooking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain.
Actual results and outcomes could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign
exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer demand and spending, inflation, interest rates, regional
labor market and global supply chain constraints, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud
services, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of
products and services sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to
which we owe income or other taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results,
international growth and expansion, the outcomes of claims, litigation, government investigations, and other proceedings,
fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks of inventory management, variability in demand, the degree
to which we enter into, maintain, and develop commercial agreements, proposed and completed acquisitions and strategic
transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, global economic and geopolitical
conditions and additional or unforeseen circumstances, developments, or events may give rise to or amplify many of these risks.
These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results or outcomes to differ
significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in Item 1A of Part I, “Risk Factors.”
Overview
Our primary source of revenue is the sale of a wide range of products and services to customers. The products offered
through our stores include merchandise and content we have purchased for resale and products offered by third-party sellers,
and we also manufacture and sell electronic devices and produce media content. Generally, we recognize gross revenue from
items we sell from our inventory as product sales and recognize our net share of revenue of items sold by third-party sellers as
service sales. We seek to increase unit sales across our stores, through increased product selection, across numerous product
categories. We also offer other services such as compute, storage, and database offerings, fulfillment, advertising, publishing,
and digital content subscriptions.
Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flows. Free cash flows are driven primarily by
increasing operating income and efficiently managing accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable, and cash capital
expenditures, including our decision to purchase or lease property and equipment. Increases in operating income primarily
result from increases in sales of products and services and efficiently managing our operating costs, partially offset by
investments we make in longer-term strategic initiatives, including capital expenditures focused on improving the customer
experience. To increase sales of products and services, we focus on improving all aspects of the customer experience, including
lowering prices, improving availability, offering faster delivery and performance times, increasing selection, producing original
content, increasing product categories and service offerings, expanding product information, improving ease of use, improving
reliability, and earning customer trust. See “Results of Operations — Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below for additional
information on our non-GAAP free cash flows financial measures.
We seek to reduce our variable costs per unit and work to leverage our fixed costs. Our variable costs include product
and content costs, payment processing and related transaction costs, picking, packaging, and preparing orders for shipment,
transportation, customer service support, costs necessary to run AWS, and a portion of our marketing costs. Our fixed costs
include the costs necessary to build and run our technology infrastructure; to build, enhance, and add features to our online
stores, web services, electronic devices, and digital offerings; and to build and optimize our fulfillment network. Variable costs
generally change directly with sales volume, while fixed costs generally are dependent on the timing of capacity needs,
geographic expansion, category expansion, and other factors. To decrease our variable costs on a per unit basis and enable us to
lower prices for customers, we seek to increase our direct sourcing, increase discounts from suppliers, and reduce defects in our
processes. To minimize unnecessary growth in fixed costs, we seek to improve process efficiencies and maintain a lean culture.
We seek to turn inventory quickly and collect from consumers before our payments to vendors and sellers become due.
Because consumers primarily use credit cards in our stores, our receivables from consumers settle quickly. We expect
variability in inventory turnover over time since it is affected by numerous factors, including our product mix, the mix of sales
by us and by third-party sellers, our continuing focus on in-stock inventory availability and selection of product offerings,
supply chain disruptions and resulting vendor lead times, our investment in new geographies and product lines, and the extent
to which we choose to utilize third-party fulfillment providers. We also expect some variability in accounts payable days over
time since they are affected by several factors, including the mix of product sales, the mix of sales by third-party sellers, the mix
19
of suppliers, seasonality, and changes in payment and other terms over time, including the effect of balancing pricing and
timing of payment terms with suppliers.
We expect spending in technology and content will increase over time as we add computer scientists, designers, software
and hardware engineers, and merchandising employees. Our technology and content investment and capital spending projects
often support a variety of product and service offerings due to geographic expansion and the cross-functionality of our systems
and operations. We seek to invest efficiently in several areas of technology and content, including AWS, and expansion of new
and existing product categories and service offerings, as well as in technology infrastructure to enhance the customer
experience and improve our process efficiencies. We believe that advances in technology, specifically the speed and reduced
cost of processing power, data storage and analytics, improved wireless connectivity, and the practical applications of artificial
intelligence and machine learning, will continue to improve users’ experience on the Internet and increase its ubiquity in
people’s lives. To best take advantage of these continued advances in technology, we are investing in AWS, which offers a
broad set of on-demand technology services, including compute, storage, database, analytics, and machine learning, and other
services, to developers and enterprises of all sizes. We are also investing in initiatives to build and deploy innovative and
efficient software and electronic devices as well as other initiatives including the development of a satellite network for global
broadband service and autonomous vehicles for ride-hailing services.
We seek to efficiently manage shareholder dilution while maintaining the flexibility to issue shares for strategic purposes,
such as financings, acquisitions, and aligning employee compensation with shareholders’ interests. We utilize restricted stock
units as our primary vehicle for equity compensation because we believe this compensation model aligns the long-term interests
of our shareholders and employees. In measuring shareholder dilution, we include all vested and unvested stock awards
outstanding, without regard to estimated forfeitures. Total shares outstanding plus outstanding stock awards were 10.5 billion
and 10.6 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2022.
Our financial reporting currency is the U.S. Dollar and changes in foreign exchange rates significantly affect our
reported results and consolidated trends. For example, if the U.S. Dollar weakens year-over-year relative to currencies in our
international locations, our consolidated net sales and operating expenses will be higher than if currencies had remained
constant. Likewise, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens year-over-year relative to currencies in our international locations, our
consolidated net sales and operating expenses will be lower than if currencies had remained constant. We believe that our
increasing diversification beyond the U.S. economy through our growing international businesses benefits our shareholders
over the long-term. We also believe it is useful to evaluate our operating results and growth rates before and after the effect of
currency changes.
In addition, the remeasurement of our intercompany balances can result in significant gains and losses associated with the
effect of movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Currency volatilities may continue, which may significantly impact
(either positively or negatively) our reported results and consolidated trends and comparisons.
For additional information about each line item addressed above, refer to Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business, Accounting Policies, and Supplemental Disclosures.”
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 includes a discussion and analysis of our
financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 in Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
Critical Accounting Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States
(“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses,
and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Critical
accounting estimates are those estimates made in accordance with GAAP that involve a significant level of estimation
uncertainty and have had or are reasonably likely to have a material impact on the financial condition or results of operations of
the Company. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting estimates addressed below. We also have
other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to
understanding our results. For additional information, see Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data —
Note 1 — Description of Business, Accounting Policies, and Supplemental Disclosures.” Although we believe that our
estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may
differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions.
Inventories
Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out method, and
are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently
available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product
20
vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. These assumptions about future
disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain and changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material
write-downs in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance as of
December 31, 2022, we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $390 million.
In addition, we enter into supplier commitments for certain electronic device components and certain products. These
commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs.
Income Taxes
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations,
administrative practices, principles, and interpretations in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, with or
without notice, due to economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and
estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of
business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. In addition, our actual and forecasted earnings are subject to
change due to economic, political, and other conditions and significant judgment is required in determining our ability to use
our deferred tax assets.
Our effective tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, such as changes in our business operations, acquisitions,
investments, entry into new businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, the relative amount of our foreign earnings,
including earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated
in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize related
tax benefits, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in our stock price,
changes to our forecasts of income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, changes in our deferred tax assets
and liabilities and their valuation, changes in the laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations
related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various
jurisdictions. In addition, a number of countries have enacted or are actively pursuing changes to their tax laws applicable to
corporate multinationals.
We are also currently subject to tax controversies in various jurisdictions, and these jurisdictions may assess additional
income tax liabilities against us. Developments in an audit, investigation, or other tax controversy could have a material effect
on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and
subsequent periods. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these proceedings to determine the
adequacy of our tax accruals. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of audits, investigations,
and any other tax controversies could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Cash flow information is as follows (in millions):
Year Ended December 31,
2021 2022
Cash provided by (used in):
Operating activities $ 46,327 $ 46,752
Investing activities (58,154) (37,601)
Financing activities 6,291 9,718
Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and
marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $96.0 billion and $70.0 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2022.
Amounts held in foreign currencies were $22.7 billion and $18.3 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2022. Our foreign
currency balances include British Pounds, Canadian Dollars, Euros, and Japanese Yen.
Cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $46.3 billion and $46.8 billion in 2021 and 2022. Our operating cash
flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, developer, enterprise, and content creator customers, and
advertisers, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation, payment processing and
related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments. Cash received from our customers and other activities
generally corresponds to our net sales. The increase in operating cash flow in 2022, compared to the prior year, was primarily
due to the increase in net income, excluding non-cash expenses, partially offset by changes in working capital. Working capital
at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including variability in demand, inventory management and category
expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, customer and vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange
rates.
21
Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with cash capital expenditures, including leasehold
improvements, incentives received from property and equipment vendors, proceeds from asset sales, cash outlays for
acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable
securities. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(58.2) billion and $(37.6) billion in 2021 and 2022, with the
variability caused primarily by purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash capital expenditures were $55.4
billion, and $58.3 billion in 2021 and 2022, which primarily reflect investments in technology infrastructure (the majority of
which is to support AWS business growth) and in additional capacity to support our fulfillment network. We expect to continue
these investments over time, with increased spending on technology infrastructure. We made cash payments, net of acquired
cash, related to acquisition and other investment activity of $2.0 billion and $8.3 billion in 2021 and 2022. We funded the
acquisition of MGM Holdings Inc. with cash on hand. We expect to fund the acquisitions of 1Life Healthcare, Inc. (One
Medical) and iRobot Corporation with cash on hand.
Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $6.3 billion and $9.7 billion in 2021 and 2022. Cash inflows from
financing activities resulted from proceeds from short-term debt, and other and long-term-debt of $27.0 billion and $62.7 billion
in 2021 and 2022. Cash outflows from financing activities resulted from repurchases of common stock, payments of short-term
debt, and other, long-term debt, finance leases, and financing obligations of $20.7 billion and $53.0 billion in 2021 and 2022.
Property and equipment acquired under finance leases was $7.1 billion and $675 million in 2021 and 2022.
We had no borrowings outstanding under the two unsecured revolving credit facilities, $6.8 billion of borrowings
outstanding under the commercial paper programs, and $1.0 billion of borrowings outstanding under the secured revolving
credit facility as of December 31, 2022. See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 6 —
Debt” for additional information.
As of December 31, 2022, cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries were $4.7
billion. We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries,
indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of
such amounts.
Our U.S. taxable income is reduced by accelerated depreciation deductions and increased by the impact of capitalized
research and development expenses. U.S. tax rules provide for enhanced accelerated depreciation deductions by allowing the
election of full expensing of qualified property, primarily equipment, through 2022. Our federal tax provision included a partial
election for 2020 and 2021, and a full election for 2022. Effective January 1, 2022, research and development expenses are
required to be capitalized and amortized for U.S. tax purposes, which delays the deductibility of these expenses. Cash taxes
paid (net of refunds) were $3.7 billion and $6.0 billion for 2021 and 2022.
As of December 31, 2021 and 2022, restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $260 million and
$365 million. See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 6 — Debt” and “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies” for additional discussion of our principal
contractual commitments, as well as our pledged assets. Additionally, we have purchase obligations and open purchase orders,
including for inventory and capital expenditures, that support normal operations and are primarily due in the next twelve
months. These purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable in full or in part through the contractual
provisions.
We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances,
as well as our borrowing arrangements, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next
twelve months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See
Item 1A of Part I, “Risk Factors.” We continually evaluate opportunities to sell additional equity or debt securities, obtain credit
facilities, obtain finance and operating lease arrangements, enter into financing obligations, repurchase common stock, pay
dividends, or repurchase, refinance, or otherwise restructure our debt for strategic reasons or to further strengthen our financial
position.
The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would be dilutive to our shareholders. In addition, we will,
from time to time, consider the acquisition of, or investment in, complementary businesses, products, services, capital
infrastructure, and technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements or cause us to secure additional financing, or
issue additional equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that additional credit lines or financing instruments will be
available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, economic conditions and actions by policymaking
bodies are contributing to rising interest rates and significant capital market volatility, which, along with increases in our
borrowing levels, could increase our future borrowing costs.
22
Results of Operations
We have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. These segments reflect
the way the Company evaluates its business performance and manages its operations. See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10 — Segment Information.”
Overview
Macroeconomic factors, including inflation, increased interest rates, significant capital market volatility, the prolonged
COVID-19 pandemic, global supply chain constraints, and global economic and geopolitical developments, have direct and
indirect impacts on our results of operations that are difficult to isolate and quantify. These factors contributed to increases in
our operating costs during 2022, particularly across our North America and International segments, primarily due to a return to
more normal, seasonal demand volumes in relation to our fulfillment network fixed costs, increased transportation and utility
costs, and increased wage rates. In addition, rising fuel, utility, and food costs, rising interest rates, and recessionary fears may
impact customer demand and our ability to forecast consumer spending patterns. We also expect the current macroeconomic
environment and enterprise customer cost optimization efforts to impact our AWS revenue growth rates. We expect some or all
of these factors to continue to impact our operations into Q1 2023.
Net Sales
Net sales include product and service sales. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping
fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross. Service sales primarily represent third-party seller fees, which
includes commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees, AWS sales, advertising services, Amazon Prime
membership fees, and certain digital content subscriptions. Net sales information is as follows (in millions):
Year Ended December 31,
2021 2022
Net Sales:
North America $ 279,833 $ 315,880
International 127,787 118,007
AWS 62,202 80,096
Consolidated $ 469,822 $ 513,983
Year-over-year Percentage Growth (Decline):
North America 18 % 13 %
International 22 (8)
AWS 37 29
Consolidated 22 9
Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates:
North America 18 % 13 %
International 20 4
AWS 37 29
Consolidated 21 13
Net sales mix:
North America 60 % 61 %
International 27 23
AWS 13 16
Consolidated 100 % 100 %
Sales increased 9% in 2022, compared to the prior year. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced net sales by
$15.5 billion in 2022. For a discussion of the effect of foreign exchange rates on sales growth, see “Effect of Foreign Exchange
Rates” below.
North America sales increased 13% in 2022, compared to the prior year. The sales growth primarily reflects increased
unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, advertising sales, and subscription services. Increased unit sales were driven
largely by our continued focus on price, selection, and convenience for our customers, including from our shipping offers.
23
International sales decreased 8% in 2022, compared to the prior year, primarily due to the impact of changes in foreign
currency exchange rates, partially offset by increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, advertising sales, and
subscription services. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued focus on price, selection, and convenience for
our customers, including from our shipping offers. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced International net sales
by $15.0 billion in 2022.
AWS sales increased 29% in 2022, compared to the prior year. The sales growth primarily reflects increased customer
usage, partially offset by pricing changes, primarily driven by long-term customer contracts.
Operating Income (Loss)
Operating income (loss) by segment is as follows (in millions):
Year Ended December 31,
2021 2022
Operating Income (Loss)
North America $ 7,271 $ (2,847)
International (924) (7,746)
AWS 18,532 22,841
Consolidated $ 24,879 $ 12,248
Operating income was $24.9 billion and $12.2 billion for 2021 and 2022. We believe that operating income is a more
meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services.
The North America operating loss in 2022, as compared to the operating income in the prior year, is primarily due to
increased fulfillment and shipping costs, due in part to increases in investments in our fulfillment network, transportation costs,
and wage rates and incentives, increased technology and content costs, and growth in certain operating expenses, partially offset
by increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, and advertising sales. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates
positively impacted operating loss by $274 million in 2022.
The increase in International operating loss in absolute dollars in 2022, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to
increased fulfillment and shipping costs, due in part to increases in investments in our fulfillment network, transportation costs,
and wage rates and incentives, increased technology and content costs, and growth in certain operating expenses, partially offset
by increased advertising sales and increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers. Changes in foreign currency
exchange rates negatively impacted operating loss by $857 million in 2022.
The increase in AWS operating income in absolute dollars in 2022, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to
increased sales and cost structure productivity, including a reduction in depreciation and amortization expense from our change
in the estimated useful lives of our servers and networking equipment, partially offset by increased payroll and related expenses
and spending on technology infrastructure, all of which were primarily driven by additional investments to support AWS
business growth. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates positively impacted operating income by $1.4 billion in 2022.
24
Operating Expenses
Information about operating expenses is as follows (in millions):
Year Ended December 31,
 2021 2022
Operating expenses:
Cost of sales $ 272,344 $ 288,831
Fulfillment 75,111 84,299
Technology and content 56,052 73,213
Sales and marketing 32,551 42,238
General and administrative 8,823 11,891
Other operating expense (income), net 62 1,263
Total operating expenses $ 444,943 $ 501,735
Year-over-year Percentage Growth (Decline):
Cost of sales 17 % 6 %
Fulfillment 28 12
Technology and content 31 31
Sales and marketing 48 30
General and administrative 32 35
Other operating expense (income), net (183) 1,936
Percent of Net Sales:
Cost of sales 58.0 % 56.2 %
Fulfillment 16.0 16.4
Technology and content 11.9 14.2
Sales and marketing 6.9 8.2
General and administrative 1.9 2.3
Other operating expense (income), net 0.0 0.2
Cost of Sales
Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, inbound and outbound shipping costs,
including costs related to sortation and delivery centers and where we are the transportation service provider, and digital media
content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and music.
The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in 2022, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased shipping
and product costs resulting from increased sales and increases in investments in our fulfillment network, transportation costs,
and wage rates and incentives. Changes in foreign exchange rates reduced cost of sales by $10.8 billion in 2022.
Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory and recognized as cost of sales upon
sale of products to our customers. Shipping costs, which include sortation and delivery centers and transportation costs, were
$76.7 billion and $83.5 billion in 2021 and 2022. We expect our cost of shipping to continue to increase to the extent our
customers accept and use our shipping offers at an increasing rate, we use more expensive shipping methods, including faster
delivery, and we offer additional services. We seek to mitigate costs of shipping over time in part through achieving higher
sales volumes, optimizing our fulfillment network, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating
efficiencies. We believe that offering low prices to our customers is fundamental to our future success, and one way we offer
lower prices is through shipping offers.
Costs to operate our AWS segment are primarily classified as “Technology and content” as we leverage a shared
infrastructure that supports both our internal technology requirements and external sales to AWS customers.
Fulfillment
Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International
fulfillment centers, physical stores, and customer service centers and payment processing costs. While AWS payment
processing and related transaction costs are included in “Fulfillment,” AWS costs are primarily classified as “Technology and
content.” Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related
25
transaction costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, the
extent to which third-party sellers utilize Fulfillment by Amazon services, timing of fulfillment network and physical store
expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services sold, and our ability
to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our
customer self-service features. Additionally, sales by our sellers have higher payment processing and related transaction costs
as a percentage of net sales compared to our retail sales because payment processing costs are based on the gross purchase price
of underlying transactions.
The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in 2022, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased
investments in our fulfillment network and variable costs corresponding with increased product and service sales volume and
inventory levels, and increased wage rates and incentives. Changes in foreign exchange rates reduced fulfillment costs by $2.5
billion in 2022.
We seek to expand our fulfillment network to accommodate a greater selection and in-stock inventory levels and to meet
anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the
fulfillment services. We regularly evaluate our facility requirements.
Technology and Content
Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved in the research and
development of new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our stores, curation and
display of products and services made available in our online stores, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include
servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation and amortization, rent, utilities, and other expenses
necessary to support AWS and other Amazon businesses. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to
offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers, including expenditures related to initiatives to build and deploy
innovative and efficient software and electronic devices and the development of a satellite network for global broadband service
and autonomous vehicles for ride-hailing services.
We seek to invest efficiently in numerous areas of technology and content so we may continue to enhance the customer
experience and improve our process efficiency through rapid technology developments, while operating at an ever increasing
scale. Our technology and content investment and capital spending projects often support a variety of product and service
offerings due to geographic expansion and the cross-functionality of our systems and operations. We expect spending in
technology and content to increase over time as we continue to add employees and technology infrastructure. These costs are
allocated to segments based on usage. The increase in technology and content costs in absolute dollars in 2022, compared to the
prior year, is primarily due to increased payroll and related costs associated with technical teams responsible for expanding our
existing products and services and initiatives to introduce new products and service offerings, and an increase in spending on
technology infrastructure, partially offset by a reduction in depreciation and amortization expense from our change in the
estimated useful lives of our servers and networking equipment. See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data — Note 1 — Description of Business, Accounting Policies, and Supplemental Disclosures — Use of Estimates” for
additional information on the change in estimated useful lives of our servers and networking equipment.
Sales and Marketing
Sales and marketing costs include advertising and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and
selling activities, including sales commissions related to AWS. We direct customers to our stores primarily through a number of
marketing channels, such as our sponsored search, social and online advertising, third party customer referrals, television
advertising, and other initiatives. Our marketing costs are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the
extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we
would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing costs.
The increase in sales and marketing costs in absolute dollars in 2022, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to
increased payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities and higher marketing spend.
While costs associated with Amazon Prime membership benefits and other shipping offers are not included in sales and
marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them
indefinitely.
General and Administrative
The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in 2022, compared to the prior year, is primarily due
to increases in payroll and related expenses and professional fees.
26
Other Operating Expense (Income), Net
Other operating expense (income), net was $62 million and $1.3 billion during 2021 and 2022, and was primarily related
to the amortization of intangible assets and, for 2022, $1.1 billion of impairments of property and equipment and operating
leases.
Interest Income and Expense
Our interest income was $448 million and $989 million during 2021 and 2022, primarily due to an increase in prevailing
rates. We generally invest our excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- to intermediate-term
fixed income securities. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds based on the prevailing
rates, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested.
Interest expense was $1.8 billion and $2.4 billion in 2021 and 2022 and was primarily related to debt and finance leases.
See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 4 — Leases and Note 6 — Debt” for additional
information.
Our long-term lease liabilities were $67.7 billion and $73.0 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2022. Our long-term
debt was $48.7 billion and $67.1 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2022. See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data — Note 4 — Leases and Note 6 — Debt” for additional information.
Other Income (Expense), Net
Other income (expense), net was $14.6 billion and $(16.8) billion during 2021 and 2022. The primary components of
other income (expense), net are related to equity securities valuations and adjustments, equity warrant valuations, and foreign
currency. Included in other income (expense), net in 2021 and 2022 is a marketable equity securities valuation gain (loss) of
$11.8 billion and $(12.7) billion from our equity investment in Rivian.
Income Taxes
Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in our pre-tax and
taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, intercompany transactions, the applicability of special
tax regimes, changes in how we do business, acquisitions, investments, developments in tax controversies, changes in our stock
price, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, foreign currency gains (losses), changes in statutes,
regulations, case law, and administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global
tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions, and relative changes of expenses or
losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Our effective tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pretax income or loss. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater
when our pre-tax income is lower. In addition, we record valuation allowances against deferred tax assets when there is
uncertainty about our ability to generate future income in relevant jurisdictions.
We recorded a provision (benefit) for income taxes of $4.8 billion and $(3.2) billion in 2021 and 2022. See Item 8 of Part
II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 9 — Income Taxes” for additional information.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the
conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of free cash flows and the effect of foreign
exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures.
We provide multiple measures of free cash flows because we believe these measures provide additional perspective on
the impact of acquiring property and equipment with cash and through finance leases and financing obligations.
27
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is cash flow from operations reduced by “Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales
and incentives.” The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net
cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2021 and 2022 (in millions):
Year Ended December 31,
2021 2022
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 46,327 $ 46,752
Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives (55,396) (58,321)
Free cash flow $ (9,069) $ (11,569)
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (58,154) $ (37,601)
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 6,291 $ 9,718
Free Cash Flow Less Principal Repayments of Finance Leases and Financing Obligations
Free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations is free cash flow reduced by
“Principal repayments of finance leases” and “Principal repayments of financing obligations.” Principal repayments of finance
leases and financing obligations approximates the actual payments of cash for our finance leases and financing obligations. The
following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations to the most
comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2021 and 2022 (in millions):
Year Ended December 31,
2021 2022
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 46,327 $ 46,752
Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives (55,396) (58,321)
Free cash flow (9,069) (11,569)
Principal repayments of finance leases (11,163) (7,941)
Principal repayments of financing obligations (162) (248)
Free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations $ (20,394) $ (19,758)
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (58,154) $ (37,601)
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 6,291 $ 9,718
28
Free Cash Flow Less Equipment Finance Leases and Principal Repayments of All Other Finance Leases and Financing
Obligations
Free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all other finance leases and financing
obligations is free cash flow reduced by equipment acquired under finance leases, which is included in “Property and
equipment acquired under finance leases, net of remeasurements and modifications,” principal repayments of all other finance
lease liabilities, which is included in “Principal repayments of finance leases,” and “Principal repayments of financing
obligations.” All other finance lease liabilities and financing obligations consists of property. In this measure, equipment
acquired under finance leases is reflected as if these assets had been purchased with cash, which is not the case as these assets
have been leased. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of
all other finance leases and financing obligations to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by
(used in) operating activities,” for 2021 and 2022 (in millions):
Year Ended December 31,
2021 2022
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 46,327 $ 46,752
Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives (55,396) (58,321)
Free cash flow (9,069) (11,569)
Equipment acquired under finance leases (1) (4,422) (299)
Principal repayments of all other finance leases (2) (687) (670)
Principal repayments of financing obligations (162) (248)
Free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all other finance
leases and financing obligations $ (14,340) $ (12,786)
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (58,154) $ (37,601)
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 6,291 $ 9,718
___________________
(1) For the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2022, this amount relates to equipment included in “Property and equipment
acquired under finance leases, net of remeasurements and modifications” of $7,061 million and $675 million.
(2) For the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2022, this amount relates to property included in “Principal repayments of
finance leases” of $11,163 million and $7,941 million.
All of these free cash flows measures have limitations as they omit certain components of the overall cash flow statement
and do not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, these measures of free cash
flows do not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of debt or cash payments for business
acquisitions. Additionally, our mix of property and equipment acquisitions with cash or other financing options may change
over time. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flows measures only as a complement to our entire
consolidated statements of cash flows.
Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates
Information regarding the effect of foreign exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our net sales, operating expenses,
and operating income is provided to show reported period operating results had the foreign exchange rates remained the same
as those in effect in the comparable prior year period. The effect on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income
from changes in our foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions):
Year Ended December 31, 2021 Year Ended December 31, 2022

As
Reported
Exchange
Rate
Effect (1)
At Prior
Year
Rates (2)
As
Reported
Exchange
Rate
Effect (1)
At Prior
Year
Rates (2)
