To our shareholders:
Amazon.com passed many milestones in 1997: by year-end, we had served more than 1.5 million customers,
yielding 838% revenue growth to $147.8 million, and extended our market leadership despite aggressive
competitive entry.
But this is Day 1 for the Internet and, if we execute well, for Amazon.com. Today, online commerce saves
customers money and precious time. Tomorrow, through personalization, online commerce will accelerate the
very process of discovery. Amazon.com uses the Internet to create real value for its customers and, by doing so,
hopes to create an enduring franchise, even in established and large markets.
We have a window of opportunity as larger players marshal the resources to pursue the online opportunity
and as customers, new to purchasing online, are receptive to forming new relationships. The competitive
landscape has continued to evolve at a fast pace. Many large players have moved online with credible offerings
and have devoted substantial energy and resources to building awareness, traffic, and sales. Our goal is to move
quickly to solidify and extend our current position while we begin to pursue the online commerce opportunities
in other areas. We see substantial opportunity in the large markets we are targeting. This strategy is not without
risk: it requires serious investment and crisp execution against established franchise leaders.
It’s All About the Long Term
We believe that a fundamental measure of our success will be the shareholder value we create over the long
term. This value will be a direct result of our ability to extend and solidify our current market leadership position.
The stronger our market leadership, the more powerful our economic model. Market leadership can translate
directly to higher revenue, higher profitability, greater capital velocity, and correspondingly stronger returns on
invested capital.
Our decisions have consistently reflected this focus. We first measure ourselves in terms of the metrics most
indicative of our market leadership: customer and revenue growth, the degree to which our customers continue to
purchase from us on a repeat basis, and the strength of our brand. We have invested and will continue to invest
aggressively to expand and leverage our customer base, brand, and infrastructure as we move to establish an
enduring franchise.
Because of our emphasis on the long term, we may make decisions and weigh tradeoffs differently than
some companies. Accordingly, we want to share with you our fundamental management and decision-making
approach so that you, our shareholders, may confirm that it is consistent with your investment philosophy:
• We will continue to focus relentlessly on our customers.
• We will continue to make investment decisions in light of long-term market leadership considerations
rather than short-term profitability considerations or short-term Wall Street reactions.
• We will continue to measure our programs and the effectiveness of our investments analytically, to
jettison those that do not provide acceptable returns, and to step up our investment in those that work
best. We will continue to learn from both our successes and our failures.
• We will make bold rather than timid investment decisions where we see a sufficient probability of
gaining market leadership advantages. Some of these investments will pay off, others will not, and we
will have learned another valuable lesson in either case.
• When forced to choose between optimizing the appearance of our GAAP accounting and maximizing
the present value of future cash flows, we’ll take the cash flows.
• We will share our strategic thought processes with you when we make bold choices (to the extent
competitive pressures allow), so that you may evaluate for yourselves whether we are making rational
long-term leadership investments.
• We will work hard to spend wisely and maintain our lean culture. We understand the importance of
continually reinforcing a cost-conscious culture, particularly in a business incurring net losses.
• We will balance our focus on growth with emphasis on long-term profitability and capital management.
At this stage, we choose to prioritize growth because we believe that scale is central to achieving the
potential of our business model.
• We will continue to focus on hiring and retaining versatile and talented employees, and continue to
weight their compensation to stock options rather than cash. We know our success will be largely
affected by our ability to attract and retain a motivated employee base, each of whom must think like,
and therefore must actually be, an owner.
We aren’t so bold as to claim that the above is the “right” investment philosophy, but it’s ours, and we
would be remiss if we weren’t clear in the approach we have taken and will continue to take.
With this foundation, we would like to turn to a review of our business focus, our progress in 1997, and our
outlook for the future.
Obsess Over Customers
From the beginning, our focus has been on offering our customers compelling value. We realized that the
Web was, and still is, the World Wide Wait. Therefore, we set out to offer customers something they simply
could not get any other way, and began serving them with books. We brought them much more selection than
was possible in a physical store (our store would now occupy 6 football fields), and presented it in a useful, easyto-search, and easy-to-browse format in a store open 365 days a year, 24 hours a day. We maintained a dogged
focus on improving the shopping experience, and in 1997 substantially enhanced our store. We now offer
customers gift certificates, 1-ClickSM shopping, and vastly more reviews, content, browsing options, and
recommendation features. We dramatically lowered prices, further increasing customer value. Word of mouth
remains the most powerful customer acquisition tool we have, and we are grateful for the trust our customers
have placed in us. Repeat purchases and word of mouth have combined to make Amazon.com the market leader
in online bookselling.
By many measures, Amazon.com came a long way in 1997:
• Sales grew from $15.7 million in 1996 to $147.8 million – an 838% increase.
• Cumulative customer accounts grew from 180,000 to 1,510,000 – a 738% increase.
• The percentage of orders from repeat customers grew from over 46% in the fourth quarter of 1996 to
over 58% in the same period in 1997.
• In terms of audience reach, per Media Metrix, our Web site went from a rank of 90th to within the
top 20.
• We established long-term relationships with many important strategic partners, including America
Online, Yahoo!, Excite, Netscape, GeoCities, AltaVista, @Home, and Prodigy.
Infrastructure
During 1997, we worked hard to expand our business infrastructure to support these greatly increased
traffic, sales, and service levels:
• Amazon.com’s employee base grew from 158 to 614, and we significantly strengthened our
management team.
• Distribution center capacity grew from 50,000 to 285,000 square feet, including a 70% expansion of our
Seattle facilities and the launch of our second distribution center in Delaware in November.
• Inventories rose to over 200,000 titles at year-end, enabling us to improve availability for our customers.
• Our cash and investment balances at year-end were $125 million, thanks to our initial public offering in
May 1997 and our $75 million loan, affording us substantial strategic flexibility.
Our Employees
The past year’s success is the product of a talented, smart, hard-working group, and I take great pride in
being a part of this team. Setting the bar high in our approach to hiring has been, and will continue to be, the
single most important element of Amazon.com’s success.
It’s not easy to work here (when I interview people I tell them, “You can work long, hard, or smart, but at
Amazon.com you can’t choose two out of three”), but we are working to build something important, something
that matters to our customers, something that we can all tell our grandchildren about. Such things aren’t meant to
be easy. We are incredibly fortunate to have this group of dedicated employees whose sacrifices and passion
build Amazon.com.
Goals for 1998
We are still in the early stages of learning how to bring new value to our customers through Internet
commerce and merchandising. Our goal remains to continue to solidify and extend our brand and customer base.
This requires sustained investment in systems and infrastructure to support outstanding customer convenience,
selection, and service while we grow. We are planning to add music to our product offering, and over time we
believe that other products may be prudent investments. We also believe there are significant opportunities to
better serve our customers overseas, such as reducing delivery times and better tailoring the customer experience.
To be certain, a big part of the challenge for us will lie not in finding new ways to expand our business, but in
prioritizing our investments.
We now know vastly more about online commerce than when Amazon.com was founded, but we still have
so much to learn. Though we are optimistic, we must remain vigilant and maintain a sense of urgency. The
challenges and hurdles we will face to make our long-term vision for Amazon.com a reality are several:
aggressive, capable, well-funded competition; considerable growth challenges and execution risk; the risks of
product and geographic expansion; and the need for large continuing investments to meet an expanding market
opportunity. However, as we’ve long said, online bookselling, and online commerce in general, should prove to
be a very large market, and it’s likely that a number of companies will see significant benefit. We feel good about
what we’ve done, and even more excited about what we want to do.
1997 was indeed an incredible year. We at Amazon.com are grateful to our customers for their business and
trust, to each other for our hard work, and to our shareholders for their support and encouragement.
Jeffrey P. Bezos
Founder and Chief Executive Officer
Amazon.com, Inc.
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
____________________________________
FORM 10-K ____________________________________
(Mark One)
☒ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022
or
☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from to .
Commission File No. 000-22513
____________________________________
AMAZON.COM, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 91-1646860
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
(I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)
410 Terry Avenue North
Seattle, Washington 98109-5210
(206) 266-1000
(Address and telephone number, including area code, of registrant’s principal executive offices)
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of Each Class Trading Symbol(s) Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
Common Stock, par value $.01 per share AMZN Nasdaq Global Select Market
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
None
____________________________________
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ☒ No ☐
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Yes ☐ No ☒
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes ☒ No ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes ☒ No ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an
emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer ☒ Accelerated filer ☐
Non-accelerated filer ☐ Smaller reporting company ☐
Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or
revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control
over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its
audit report. ☒
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ☐ No ☒
Aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2022 $ 944,744,113,598
Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of January 25, 2023 10,247,259,757
____________________________________
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
The information required by Part III of this Report, to the extent not set forth herein, is incorporated herein by reference from the registrant’s definitive proxy
statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held in 2023, which definitive proxy statement shall be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year to which this Report relates.
AMAZON.COM, INC.
FORM 10-K
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2022
INDEX
Page
PART I
Item 1. Business 3
Item 1A. Risk Factors 6
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 16
Item 2. Properties 17
Item 3. Legal Proceedings 17
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 17
PART II
Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Stock, Related Shareholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities
18
Item 6. Reserved 18
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 19
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 31
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 33
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 69
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 69
Item 9B. Other Information 71
Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 71
PART III
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 71
Item 11. Executive Compensation 71
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 71
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 71
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 71
PART IV
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 72
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 74
Signatures 75
2
AMAZON.COM, INC.
PART I
Item 1. Business
This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking
statements based on expectations, estimates, and projections as of the date of this filing. Actual results and outcomes may differ
materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. See Item 1A of Part I — “Risk Factors.” As used herein,
“Amazon.com,” “we,” “our,” and similar terms include Amazon.com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates
otherwise.
General
We seek to be Earth’s most customer-centric company. We are guided by four principles: customer obsession rather than
competitor focus, passion for invention, commitment to operational excellence, and long-term thinking. In each of our
segments, we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of consumers, sellers, developers, enterprises, content creators,
advertisers, and employees.
We have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and Amazon Web Services
(“AWS”). These segments reflect the way the Company evaluates its business performance and manages its operations.
Information on our net sales is contained in Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10 —
Segment Information.”
Consumers
We serve consumers through our online and physical stores and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We design
our stores to enable hundreds of millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across dozens of product
categories. Customers access our offerings through our websites, mobile apps, Alexa, devices, streaming, and physically
visiting our stores. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices, including Kindle, Fire tablet, Fire TV, Echo, Ring, Blink,
and eero, and we develop and produce media content. We seek to offer our customers low prices, fast and free delivery, easyto-use functionality, and timely customer service. In addition, we offer subscription services such as Amazon Prime, a
membership program that includes fast, free shipping on millions of items, access to award-winning movies and series, and
other benefits.
We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through: North America and International fulfillment networks
that we operate; co-sourced and outsourced arrangements in certain countries; digital delivery; and through our physical stores.
We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by co-sourced arrangements. See Item 2 of Part I,
“Properties.”
Sellers
We offer programs that enable sellers to grow their businesses, sell their products in our stores, and fulfill orders through
us. We are not the seller of record in these transactions. We earn fixed fees, a percentage of sales, per-unit activity fees, interest,
or some combination thereof, for our seller programs.
Developers and Enterprises
We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes, including start-ups, government agencies, and academic institutions,
through AWS, which offers a broad set of on-demand technology services, including compute, storage, database, analytics, and
machine learning, and other services.
Content Creators
We offer programs that allow authors, independent publishers, musicians, filmmakers, Twitch streamers, skill and app
developers, and others to publish and sell content.
Advertisers
We provide advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored
ads, display, and video advertising.
3
Competition
Our businesses encompass a large variety of product types, service offerings, and delivery channels. The worldwide
marketplace in which we compete is evolving rapidly and intensely competitive, and we face a broad array of competitors from
many different industry sectors around the world. Our current and potential competitors include: (1) physical, e-commerce, and
omnichannel retailers, publishers, vendors, distributors, manufacturers, and producers of the products we offer and sell to
consumers and businesses; (2) publishers, producers, and distributors of physical, digital, and interactive media of all types and
all distribution channels; (3) web search engines, comparison shopping websites, social networks, web portals, and other online
and app-based means of discovering, using, or acquiring goods and services, either directly or in collaboration with other
retailers; (4) companies that provide e-commerce services, including website development and hosting, omnichannel sales,
inventory and supply chain management, advertising, fulfillment, customer service, and payment processing; (5) companies that
provide fulfillment and logistics services for themselves or for third parties, whether online or offline; (6) companies that
provide information technology services or products, including on-premises or cloud-based infrastructure and other services;
(7) companies that design, manufacture, market, or sell consumer electronics, telecommunication, and electronic devices; (8)
companies that sell grocery products online and in physical stores; and (9) companies that provide advertising services, whether
in digital or other formats. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our retail businesses include selection, price, and
convenience, including fast and reliable fulfillment. Additional competitive factors for our seller and enterprise services include
the quality, speed, and reliability of our services and tools, as well as customers’ ability and willingness to change business
practices. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, greater brand
recognition, and greater control over inputs critical to our various businesses. They may secure better terms from suppliers,
adopt more aggressive pricing, pursue restrictive distribution agreements that restrict our access to supply, direct consumers to
their own offerings instead of ours, lock-in potential customers with restrictive terms, and devote more resources to technology,
infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing. The Internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, which enhances
the ability of new, smaller, or lesser-known businesses to compete against us. Each of our businesses is also subject to rapid
change and the development of new business models and the entry of new and well-funded competitors. Other companies also
may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions.
Intellectual Property
We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary
technologies, and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law,
trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others to
protect our proprietary rights. We have registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of U.S. and international domain
names, trademarks, service marks, and copyrights. Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications
covering certain of our proprietary technology.
Seasonality
Our business is affected by seasonality, which historically has resulted in higher sales volume during our fourth quarter,
which ends December 31.
Human Capital
Our employees are critical to our mission of being Earth’s most customer-centric company. As of December 31, 2022, we
employed approximately 1,541,000 full-time and part-time employees. Additionally, we use independent contractors and
temporary personnel to supplement our workforce. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, particularly for software
engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff, and constrained labor markets have increased competition for
personnel across other parts of our business.
As we strive to be Earth’s best employer, we focus on investment and innovation, inclusion and diversity, safety, and
engagement to hire and develop the best talent. We rely on numerous and evolving initiatives to implement these objectives and
invent mechanisms for talent development, including competitive pay and benefits, flexible work arrangements, and skills
training and educational programs such as Amazon Career Choice (funded education for hourly employees) and the Amazon
Technical Academy (software development engineer training). Over 100,000 Amazon employees around the world have
participated in Career Choice. We also continue to inspect and refine the mechanisms we use to hire, develop, evaluate, and
retain our employees to promote equity for all candidates and employees. In addition, safety is integral to everything we do at
Amazon and we continue to invest in safety improvements such as capital improvements, new safety technology, vehicle safety
controls, and engineering ergonomic solutions. Our safety team is dedicated to using the science of safety to solve complex
problems and establish new industry best practices. We also provide mentorship and support resources to our employees, and
have deployed numerous programs that advance employee engagement, communication, and feedback.
4
Available Information
Our investor relations website is amazon.com/ir and we encourage investors to use it as a way of easily finding
information about us. We promptly make available on this website, free of charge, the reports that we file or furnish with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), corporate governance information (including our Code of Business Conduct
and Ethics), and select press releases.
Executive Officers and Directors
The following tables set forth certain information regarding our Executive Officers and Directors as of January 25, 2023:
Information About Our Executive Officers
Name Age Position
Jeffrey P. Bezos 59 Executive Chair
Andrew R. Jassy 55 President and Chief Executive Officer
Douglas J. Herrington 56 CEO Worldwide Amazon Stores
Brian T. Olsavsky 59 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Shelley L. Reynolds 58 Vice President, Worldwide Controller, and Principal Accounting Officer
Adam N. Selipsky 56 CEO Amazon Web Services
David A. Zapolsky 59 Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary
Jeffrey P. Bezos. Mr. Bezos founded Amazon.com in 1994 and has served as Executive Chair since July 2021. He has
served as Chair of the Board since 1994 and served as Chief Executive Officer from May 1996 until July 2021, and as President
from 1994 until June 1999 and again from October 2000 to July 2021.
Andrew R. Jassy. Mr. Jassy has served as President and Chief Executive Officer since July 2021, CEO Amazon Web
Services from April 2016 until July 2021, and Senior Vice President, Amazon Web Services, from April 2006 until April 2016.
Douglas J. Herrington. Mr. Herrington has served as CEO Worldwide Amazon Stores since July 2022, Senior Vice
President, North America Consumer from January 2015 to July 2022, and Senior Vice President, Consumables from May 2014
to December 2014.
Brian T. Olsavsky. Mr. Olsavsky has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since June 2015, Vice
President, Finance for the Global Consumer Business from December 2011 to June 2015, and numerous financial leadership
roles across Amazon with global responsibility since April 2002.
Shelley L. Reynolds. Ms. Reynolds has served as Vice President, Worldwide Controller, and Principal Accounting
Officer since April 2007.
Adam N. Selipsky. Mr. Selipsky has served as CEO Amazon Web Services since July 2021, Senior Vice President,
Amazon Web Services from May 2021 until July 2021, President and CEO of Tableau Software from September 2016 until
May 2021, and Vice President, Marketing, Sales and Support of Amazon Web Services from May 2005 to September 2016.
David A. Zapolsky. Mr. Zapolsky has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary since May 2014,
Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary from September 2012 to May 2014, and as Vice President and Associate
General Counsel for Litigation and Regulatory matters from April 2002 until September 2012.
5
Board of Directors
Name Age Position
Jeffrey P. Bezos 59 Executive Chair
Andrew R. Jassy 55 President and Chief Executive Officer
Keith B. Alexander 71 CEO, President, and Chair of IronNet, Inc.
Edith W. Cooper 61 Former Executive Vice President, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Jamie S. Gorelick 72 Partner, Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP
Daniel P. Huttenlocher 64 Dean, MIT Schwarzman College of Computing
Judith A. McGrath 70 Former Chair and CEO, MTV Networks
Indra K. Nooyi 67 Former Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo, Inc.
Jonathan J. Rubinstein 66 Former co-CEO, Bridgewater Associates, LP
Patricia Q. Stonesifer 66 Former President and Chief Executive Officer, Martha’s Table
Wendell P. Weeks 63 Chief Executive Officer, Corning Incorporated
Item 1A. Risk Factors
Please carefully consider the following discussion of significant factors, events, and uncertainties that make an
investment in our securities risky. The events and consequences discussed in these risk factors could, in circumstances we may
or may not be able to accurately predict, recognize, or control, have a material adverse effect on our business, growth,
reputation, prospects, financial condition, operating results (including components of our financial results), cash flows,
liquidity, and stock price. These risk factors do not identify all risks that we face; our operations could also be affected by
factors, events, or uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider to present significant
risks to our operations. In addition to the factors discussed in Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview,” and in the risk factors below, global economic and geopolitical
conditions and additional or unforeseen circumstances, developments, or events may give rise to or amplify many of the risks
discussed below. Many of the risks discussed below also impact our customers, including third-party sellers, which could
indirectly have a material adverse effect on us.
Business and Industry Risks
We Face Intense Competition
Our businesses are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and we have many competitors across geographies,
including cross-border competition, and in different industries, including physical, e-commerce, and omnichannel retail, ecommerce services, web and infrastructure computing services, electronic devices, digital content, advertising, grocery, and
transportation and logistics services. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories,
more customers, and/or greater brand recognition, particularly with our newly-launched products and services and in our newer
geographic regions. They may secure better terms from vendors, adopt more aggressive pricing, and devote more resources to
technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing.
Competition continues to intensify, including with the development of new business models and the entry of new and
well-funded competitors, and as our competitors enter into business combinations or alliances and established companies in
other market segments expand to become competitive with our business. In addition, new and enhanced technologies, including
search, web and infrastructure computing services, digital content, and electronic devices continue to increase our competition.
The Internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, which enhances the ability of new, smaller, or lesser known
businesses to compete against us. As a result of competition, our product and service offerings may not be successful, we may
fail to gain or may lose business, and we may be required to increase our spending or lower prices, any of which could
materially reduce our sales and profits.
Our Expansion into New Products, Services, Technologies, and Geographic Regions Subjects Us to Additional Risks
We may have limited or no experience in our newer market segments, and our customers may not adopt our product or
service offerings. These offerings, which can present new and difficult technology challenges, may subject us to claims if
customers of these offerings experience, or are otherwise impacted by, service disruptions, delays, setbacks, or failures or
quality issues. In addition, profitability, if any, in our newer activities may not meet our expectations, and we may not be
successful enough in these newer activities to recoup our investments in them, which investments are often significant. Failure
to realize the benefits of amounts we invest in new technologies, products, or services could result in the value of those
investments being written down or written off. In addition, our sustainability initiatives may be unsuccessful for a variety of
6
reasons, including if we are unable to realize the expected benefits of new technologies or if we do not successfully plan or
execute new strategies, which could harm our business or damage our reputation.
Our International Operations Expose Us to a Number of Risks
Our international activities are significant to our revenues and profits, and we plan to further expand internationally. In
certain international market segments, we have relatively little operating experience and may not benefit from any first-tomarket advantages or otherwise succeed. It is costly to establish, develop, and maintain international operations and stores, and
promote our brand internationally. Our international operations may not become profitable on a sustained basis.
In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international sales and operations are subject to a number of
risks, including:
• local economic and political conditions;
• government regulation (such as regulation of our product and service offerings and of competition); restrictive
governmental actions (such as trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and
tariffs); nationalization; and restrictions on foreign ownership;
• restrictions on sales or distribution of certain products or services and uncertainty regarding liability for products,
services, and content, including uncertainty as a result of less Internet-friendly legal systems, local laws, lack of legal
precedent, and varying rules, regulations, and practices regarding the physical and digital distribution of media
products and enforcement of intellectual property rights;
• business licensing or certification requirements, such as for imports, exports, web services, and electronic devices;
• limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions;
• limited fulfillment and technology infrastructure;
• shorter payable and longer receivable cycles and the resultant negative impact on cash flow;
• laws and regulations regarding privacy, data use, data protection, data security, data localization, network security,
consumer protection, payments, advertising, and restrictions on pricing or discounts;
• lower levels of use of the Internet;
• lower levels of consumer spending and fewer opportunities for growth compared to the U.S.;
• lower levels of credit card usage and increased payment risk;
• difficulty in staffing, developing, and managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural
differences;
• different employee/employer relationships and the existence of works councils and labor unions;
• compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable U.S. and foreign laws prohibiting
corrupt payments to government officials and other third parties;
• laws and policies of the U.S. and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, loans, and taxes; and
• geopolitical events, including war and terrorism.
As international physical, e-commerce, and omnichannel retail, cloud services, and other services grow, competition will
intensify, including through adoption of evolving business models. Local companies may have a substantial competitive
advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, the local customer, as well as their more established local
brand names. The inability to hire, train, retain, and manage sufficient required personnel may limit our international growth.
The People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) and India regulate Amazon’s and its affiliates’ businesses and operations in
country through regulations and license requirements that may restrict (i) foreign investment in and operation of the Internet, IT
infrastructure, data centers, retail, delivery, and other sectors, (ii) Internet content, and (iii) the sale of media and other products
and services. For example, in order to meet local ownership, regulatory licensing, and cybersecurity requirements, we provide
certain technology services in China through contractual relationships with third parties that hold PRC licenses to provide
services. In India, the government restricts the ownership or control of Indian companies by foreign entities involved in online
multi-brand retail trading activities. For www.amazon.in, we provide certain marketing tools and logistics services to thirdparty sellers to enable them to sell online and deliver to customers, and we hold indirect minority interests in entities that are
third-party sellers on the www.amazon.in marketplace. Although we believe these structures and activities comply with existing
laws, they involve unique risks, and the PRC and India may from time to time consider and implement additional changes in
their regulatory, licensing, or other requirements that could impact these structures and activities. There are substantial
uncertainties regarding the interpretation of PRC and Indian laws and regulations, and it is possible that these governments will
7
ultimately take a view contrary to ours. In addition, our Chinese and Indian businesses and operations may be unable to
continue to operate if we or our affiliates are unable to access sufficient funding or, in China, enforce contractual relationships
we or our affiliates have in place. Violation of any existing or future PRC, Indian, or other laws or regulations or changes in the
interpretations of those laws and regulations could result in our businesses in those countries being subject to fines and other
financial penalties, having licenses revoked, or being forced to restructure our operations or shut down entirely.
The Variability in Our Retail Business Places Increased Strain on Our Operations
Demand for our products and services can fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including as a result of seasonality,
promotions, product launches, or unforeseeable events, such as in response to global economic conditions such as recessionary
fears or rising inflation, natural or human-caused disasters (including public health crises) or extreme weather (including as a
result of climate change), or geopolitical events. For example, we expect a disproportionate amount of our retail sales to occur
during our fourth quarter. Our failure to stock or restock popular products in sufficient amounts such that we fail to meet
customer demand could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. When we overstock products, we may be
required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs and incur commitment costs, which could materially reduce
profitability. We regularly experience increases in our net shipping cost due to complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and
additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery for the holiday season. If too many customers access our
websites within a short period of time due to increased demand, we may experience system interruptions that make our websites
unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume of goods we offer or sell and the
attractiveness of our products and services. In addition, we may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment network and
customer service centers during these peak periods and delivery and other fulfillment companies and customer service cosourcers may be unable to meet the seasonal demand. Risks described elsewhere in this Item 1A relating to fulfillment network
optimization and inventory are magnified during periods of high demand.
As a result of holiday sales, as of December 31 of each year, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities
balances typically reach their highest level (other than as a result of cash flows provided by or used in investing and financing
activities) because consumers primarily use credit cards in our stores and the related receivables settle quickly. Typically, there
is also a corresponding increase in accounts payable as of December 31 due to inventory purchases and third-party seller sales.
Our accounts payable balance generally declines during the first three months of the year as vendors and sellers are paid,
resulting in a corresponding decline in our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances.
We Are Impacted by Fraudulent or Unlawful Activities of Sellers
The law relating to the liability of online service providers is currently unsettled. In addition, governmental agencies have
in the past and could in the future require changes in the way this business is conducted. Under our seller programs, we
maintain policies and processes designed to prevent sellers from collecting payments, fraudulently or otherwise, when buyers
never receive the products they ordered or when the products received are materially different from the sellers’ descriptions,
and to prevent sellers in our stores or through other stores from selling unlawful, counterfeit, pirated, or stolen goods, selling
goods in an unlawful or unethical manner, violating the proprietary rights of others, or otherwise violating our policies. When
these policies and processes are circumvented or fail to operate sufficiently, it can harm our business or damage our reputation
and we could face civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities by our sellers. Under our A-to-z Guarantee, we may
reimburse customers for payments up to certain limits in these situations, and as our third-party seller sales grow, the cost of
this program will increase and could negatively affect our operating results.
We Face Risks Related to Adequately Protecting Our Intellectual Property Rights and Being Accused of Infringing
Intellectual Property Rights of Third Parties
We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology, and
similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade secret
protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, and others to protect our proprietary
rights. Effective intellectual property protection is not available in every country in which our products and services are made
available. We also may not be able to acquire or maintain appropriate domain names in all countries in which we do business.
Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. We may be
unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value of our
trademarks and other proprietary rights.
We are not always able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. Actions
taken by third parties that license our proprietary rights may materially diminish the value of our proprietary rights or
reputation. The protection of our intellectual property requires the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources.
Moreover, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property do not always adequately protect our rights or prevent third
8
parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights. We also cannot be certain that others will not independently
develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology or other intellectual property rights.
We have been subject to, and expect to continue to be subject to, claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged
infringement by us of the intellectual property rights of third parties. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, have in the past,
and may in the future, result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against us, or
significant payments for damages, including to satisfy indemnification obligations or to obtain licenses from third parties who
allege that we have infringed their rights. Such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. These risks
have been amplified by the increase in third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims.
Our digital content offerings depend in part on effective digital rights management technology to control access to digital
content. Breach or malfunctioning of the digital rights management technology that we use could subject us to claims, and
content providers may be unwilling to include their content in our service.
We Have Foreign Exchange Risk
