Ashish Kapoor (AK) (Ram Kapoor) is an Indian businessman who lost 20,000 crore Rupees in his dream company and fled from India to avoid being incarcerated. His company had over 10,000 employees whose salaries had not been paid for over 2 years. AK owns a castle in Scotland, where he is throwing a birthday party, and invited his close friends and family: AK's secretary, Kay Patel, (Amrita Puri) who has a massive crush on AK and is willing to do anything for him. Jimmy Mistry (Rahul Bose) is AK's brother-in-law who is spiteful of AK as Mistry's father selected AK as his successor to his company. AK's step-son, Ryan, Shashank Arora) who was severely neglected in his childhood and is now a drug addict who despises his father. In a fit of rage and revenge, Ryan brings his mysterious girlfriend Gigi, (Prajakta Koli), and has asked her to wear a yellow gown belonging to his late mother, to shock AK and possibly trigger him to confess his past crime. Noor, (Dipannita Sharma), an ex-actress who was AK's former love interest and is now married to Dr. Sanjay Suri (Neeraj Kabi). The couple are debt-ridden as Suri lost his medical license and are now overwhelmed by AK's favours for them. AK's confidante and therapist, Zara, AK's current girlfriend Lisa (Shahana Goswami) and Lisa's cousin (Sasha) are other guests who arrive at the party.
During a surprise party thrown by him for his friends, a chandelier almost falls on AK - almost killing him. Then arrives CBI Officer, Meera Rao (Vidya Balan), and AK announces to his friends and family that he will be surrendering himself to the Government of India which leaves the group in shock.
A series of events then take place. In a heated discussion between Ryan and AK, AK storms out of the castle with Meera chasing after him. Meera is then knocked unconscious with a shovel by someone unknown. The group chase after AK who has jumped off the cliff. Zara claims to have seen AK jumping from the cliff. Meera takes over the investigation. One thing leads to another and more murders follow. Meera searches everyone's rooms, interrogates them and gathers clues linking everyone of them to one or the other murder in some way or other. All these people have a motive to kill AK in some way or the other. A lot of confusion followed by some confessions reveal how every single person in the castle had a motive to kill. Meera finds out what really conspired behind the multiple murders. The final twist in the tale reveals the truth